# Motion-Tracking-
In this project, we label observations (3D points) using greedy and Hungarian algorithm and use the observed data to update our prediction model, providing correctly labeled observations with predictions filled in where observations are missing. 

# Greedy.m 
Also, called as Best First Strategy is used for performing hard data association necessarily giving optimal solution. This function uses the current statemean and current state covariance matrix along with observed points to obtain association of these observed points to state mean.  greedy(observed,statemeans,statecovmats) 
 
Input arguments:  Observed points, Initial statemeans and Initial statecovmats [observ_labeled,scores] Output of this function are: Associated observed points and score of the frame processed.  Steps for this algorithm: 1. We generate a matrix of minimum distances of points from the statemeans.  2. Rows corresponds to observed points and columns corresponds to statemeans.  3. We find the minimum value of distance in each row.  4. This minimum distance represents points to the particular statemeans. 5. For few missing observation, we assign the output statemeans as the one used for labeling. 6. For quantitative analysis, we calculate the score which is given by the minimum distance associated with the associated output points. 
 
# Hungarian.m 
This is another method we used for data association. This method is also called as Kuhn-Munkres algorithm. This function uses similar argument as Greedy method but it is based on combinational optimization of points, means and covariance. This method gives the optimal solution as compared to greedy association. hungarian( obsv,stmns,cov ) 
 
Input arguments:  obsv is the observed points, stmns is the initial statemeans and cov is the initial state covariance matrix.  [obsv_labeled,scores] Output of this function are: obsv_labeled is the associated labeled observed points and scores of Hungarian method.  
 
Steps followed in this function are: 1. Make R matrix by finding size of observation points and statemeans 2. Calculate Euclid’s distance of each statemeans from its observed points by taking difference between mean and observed points. 3. Make a square matrix by adding rows and columns in place of missing observations 4. Reduce the rows by subtracting the minimum value out of each row from that row 5. For non-zero column, reduce the columns by subtracting the minimum value of each column from that column 6. Cover the zero elements with the minimum number of lines it is possible to cover them with. 7. Continue this process till associated zeros are  equal to the number of rows in the matrix. 8. If the associations are complete start assigning the observed points to labels(statemeans) 9. Assign means to proper points and calculate the hungarian score 
 
# Kf_mandy.m 
This function is used for providing the next statemeans and statecovmats for the given state vector. This part is performing Kalman filtering using the current statemeans, statecovmats and associated observed points which are obtained from previous methods, to give the statemeans and statecovmats for next state. Kalman filtering is divided in two parts: -1) Predicting and 2) Updating 1. Predicting In this part, we predict the next statemeans and statecovmats using state matrices F and H. 2. Updating This predicted statemeans and statecovmats is updated using Kalman gain and Associated observed points (found from greedy.m or Hungarian.m).  
 
# Score.m  
This function is used to generate scores using Euclidean distance between statemeans and observations (3D points). It transforms the distance table into a score table for data association while Euclidean distance table is generated in Greedy or Hungarian functions. Using this function, an observation (point) that has the same distance from 2 different labels/statemeans may get different scores based on the probability distributions of the two states (both Gaussian but with different covariances) Mathematically, the score for each association (observation i with label/statemeans j) is calculated using: 
score = distance*(1-probability(distance)) where distance = Euclidean distance between observation i and statemeans j,  probability~N(statemeans j, Covariance) Input arguments : mu-mean of the state vector/statemeans, p is the covariance matrix, obsv is the observed data points, and distance_tb is the distance table calculated and passed from greedy/hungarian function. 

Note: Run main_greedy.m or main_hungarian.m and they will call sub-functions to perform tasks when needed. main_greedy uses greedy algorithm to perform data association while main_hungarian uses Hungarian algorithm. However, you need to use database with markers information. 
